[ZT] Cert troubleshooting section (#19615)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/faq/troubleshooting.mdx

If you added a [multi-level subdomain](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/get-started/create-remote-tunnel/#2a-connect-an-application) (more than one level of subdomain), you must [order an Advanced Certificate for the hostname](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/get-started/create-remote-tunnel/#2a-connect-an-application) as Cloudflare's Universal certificate will not cover the public hostname by default.

## As of February 2, 2025, my end-user device's browser is returning a `Your connection is not private` warning.

### Why am I getting this error?

The default global Cloudflare root certificate expires on 2025-02-02. If you installed the default Cloudflare certificate before 2024-10-17, you must [generate a new certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/#generate-a-cloudflare-root-certificate) and activate it for your Zero Trust organization to avoid inspection errors. If you did not generate a new certificate before February 2, 2025, you will encounter browser warnings like `Your connection is not private`.

> Starting with WARP client version 2024.12.554.0 and later, the WARP client will automatically install Cloudflare certificates in an end-user device's certificate store as soon as the Cloudflare certificates appears as **Available** in the Cloudflare dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with WARP client version 2024.12.554.0 and later, the WARP client will automatically install Cloudflare certificates in an end-user device's certificate store as soon as the Cloudflare certificates appear as **Available** in the Cloudflare dashboard.
```

For WARP client versions prior to 2024.12.554.0, certificates had to be marked as **In-Use** in the Cloudflare dashboard before the WARP client could push the Cloudflare certificates to an end-user device's certificate store.

### What do I need to do?

Before deploying a new certificate, [update WARP](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/update-warp/#how-to-update-warp) to version 2024.12.554.0 or newer.

For WARP client versions before and after 2024.12.554.0, certificate propagation will only occur when the WARP client is responsible for automatically installing the certificate on the client device. To enable the WARP client to propogate certificates:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **WARP Client**.
2. Turn on **Install CA to system certificate store**.

> If **Install CA to system certificate store** is toggled off, you must [manually install the certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/), use an [MDM solution](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/#mobile-device-management-mdm-software) to distribute the Cloudflare certificate to your fleet of devices, or not use the Cloudflare certificate because you do not want to have TLS decryption enabled. [TLS decryption](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/http-policies/tls-decryption/) must be enabled to enforce Gateway HTTP policies for HTTPS traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If **Install CA to system certificate store** is turned off, you must [manually install the certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/), use an [MDM solution](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/#mobile-device-management-mdm-software) to distribute the Cloudflare certificate to your fleet of devices, or not use the Cloudflare certificate because you do not want to have TLS decryption enabled. [TLS decryption](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/http-policies/tls-decryption/) must be enabled to enforce Gateway HTTP policies for HTTPS traffic.
```

Certificate propagation to end-user devices can take up to 24 hours, but can be expedited by resetting the encryption keys.

To reset the encryption keys:

1. Open the WARP GUI on your device.
2. Select the gear icon on the top right > **Preferences**.
3. Select **Connection**, then select **Reset Encryption Keys**.

macOS Big Sur and newer releases do not allow WARP to automatically trust the certificate. You must either [manually trust the certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/automated-deployment/#macos) as the user or [use a MDM to trust the certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/#mobile-device-management-mdm-software).

After confirming that the certificate is installed and trusted on the end-user device, mark the certificate as **In-Use**. To mark the certificate as **In-Use**:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Resources**, then select **Manage** next to **Cloudflare certificates**.
2. Select a certificate.
3. In the detailed menu under **Basic Information**, select **Confirm and turn on certificate**.

> 4. Once turned on, the new certificate will now show as **In-Use** within the dashboard. **In-Use** indicates that the certificate is being used for inspection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once turned on, the new certificate will now show as **In-Use** within the Cloudflare dashboard. **In-Use** indicates that the certificate is being used for inspection.
```

Author: We usually refer to Zero Trust as it's own product, and separate from the core dash (`the Cloudflare dashboard`).

It is recommended to have end users disconnect and reconnect WARP to expedite this change being reflected on their local machine. To verify the new certificate is being used correctly:

1. Connect to WARP.
2. Visit an HTTPS site.
3. Verify that no certificate error is enountered.

> Additionally, you can check the certificate used within your browser by viewing the certificate (steps vary by browser, but typically involve selecting the lock icon next to the URL) and verifying the Organizational Unit (OU) does not reference `ECC Certificate Authority`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can check the certificate used within your browser by viewing the certificate (steps vary by browser, but you can generally do this check by selecting the lock icon next to the URL) and verifying the Organizational Unit (OU) does not reference `ECC Certificate Authority`.
```
